# Real Time Embedded Systems Lab 4 – Basic IO

## Abstract:

Basic input/output requires an understanding of the memory map, relevant definitions and macros, and bitwise manipulations such as setting, clearing, and toggling bits.  This experiment utilized and explored the MSP432P401R Launchpad board and the Keil uVision5 development environment with the purpose of implementing a simple program to interact with the LEDs on the board.

For the initial setup for the program created in this experiment, the watchdog timer was firstly disabled so that the program could run in an infinite loop without being terminated by the system.  Then, the pins required for interfacing with the board’s switches and LEDs were configured.  P1SEL0 and P1SEL1 were set to 0 to set up the GPIO configuration for pins 0(Red LED), 1 (Switch 1), and 4 (Switch 2) on port 1, and pins 0, 1, and 2 (RGB LED) on port 2.  This was done by performing the AND operation with 0 on the specified bits and performing an AND operation with 1 on the remaining bits.  P1DIR was then set to 0 for pins 1 and 4 on port 1 to configure the switch’s pins as inputs and P1REN was set to 1 for pins 1 and 4 on port 1 to enable the pull-up resistors for these pins.  To configure the LED pins as outputs, P1DIR was set to 1 for pin 0 on port 1, and P2DIR was set to 1 for pins 0, 1, and 2 on port 2.  This was done by preforming an OR operation with 1 on the bits for these pins.  The LED states were initialized to be in the off state by setting P1OUT to 0 for pin 0 on port 1, and pins 0, 1, and 2 on port 2.  Lastly, variables for storing the current LED selected by Switch 1 and the current state of the LED selected were initialized.

To implement the remaining logic, all the code was put in an infinite loop.  In the logic, the switches were continuously polled using debouncing.  A conditional block was then used to determine which button was pressed.  If switch 1 was pressed, an XOR operation with the value of the current LED variable and 1 to alternate between the LEDs, and the LED pins were then reset to 0 to turn them off.  If switch 2 was pressed, the current state of the LED was incremented based on the current LED selected, and then the output was set based on the new incremented state.  Otherwise, the program would continue polling for the switches in a loop.

Therefore, through the completion of this lab, the basics of setting up the Launchpad board’s GPIO pins as input or output depending on the needs of the program using bit manipulation were practised.  The logic needed for debouncing and bit toggling based on the program requirements were also learned.
